0x05. Processes and signals
    Linux process and PID
        A PID (Process identification number) is an identificacion number that is automatically 
        assigned to each process when it is created on a Unix-like operating system.

        A process is an executing instance of a program. Each process is guaranteed a unique PID, 
        which is always a non-negative integer.

        The process 'init' is the only process that will always have the same PID on ane session 
        and on any system, and that PID is 1.

        A very large PID does not necessarily mean that there are anywhere near that many processes 
        on a system. This is because such numbers are often a result of the fact that PIDs are not 
        immediately reused, in order to prevent possible errors.

        The default maximum value of PIDs is 32,767. This maximum is important because it is 
        essentially the maximum number of processes that can exist simultaneously on a system.

        The file pid_max, which was introduced with the Linux 2.5 kernel, specifies the value at 
        which PIDs wrap around. It has a default of 32768, but it can be set to any number up to 
        approximately four million. The maximum number of processes on a system is only limited by 
        the amount of physical memory available.

        The PIDs for the processes currently on the system can be found by using the 'ps' command or 
        he 'pstree' command. The pidof command provides the PID of a program whose name is passed 
        to it as an argument.

        The PID is needed in order to terminate a frozen or otherwise misbehaving program with the 
        kill command. Information on current processes is stored in the /proc filesystem.

        Listing the contents of /proc with the ls command as follows will show numerous directories 
        whose names consist only of numbers:

            ls /proc | less

        There is a numbered directory in /proc corresponding to each PID currently on the system. 
        Each of the directories contains several standard files containing information about the 
        process.

    Linux signals
        Signals are software interrupts. In linux, every signal has a name that begins with 
        characters SIG.

        When the signal occurs, the process has to tell the kernel what to do with it. There can be 
        three options through which a signal can be disposed:

            1. The signal can be ignored.
            2. The signal can be caught.
            3. Let the default action apply.

        Sending a signal
            In bash we can use the 'kill' command to send a signal to a process. The following are 
            the standard signals suppported by Linux-like operative systems

            Signal      Standard   Action   Comment
            ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
            SIGABRT      P1990      Core    Abort signal from abort(3)
            SIGALRM      P1990      Term    Timer signal from alarm(2)
            SIGBUS       P2001      Core    Bus error (bad memory access)
            SIGCHLD      P1990      Ign     Child stopped or terminated
            SIGCLD         -        Ign     A synonym for SIGCHLD
            SIGCONT      P1990      Cont    Continue if stopped
            SIGEMT         -        Term    Emulator trap
            SIGFPE       P1990      Core    Floating-point exception
            SIGHUP       P1990      Term    Hangup detected on controlling terminal
                                            or death of controlling process
            SIGILL       P1990      Core    Illegal Instruction
            SIGINFO        -                A synonym for SIGPWR
            SIGINT       P1990      Term    Interrupt from keyboard
            SIGIO          -        Term    I/O now possible (4.2BSD)
            SIGIOT         -        Core    IOT trap. A synonym for SIGABRT
            SIGKILL      P1990      Term    Kill signal
            SIGLOST        -        Term    File lock lost (unused)
            SIGPIPE      P1990      Term    Broken pipe: write to pipe with no
                                            readers; see pipe(7)
            SIGPOLL      P2001      Term    Pollable event (Sys V);
                                            synonym for SIGIO
            SIGPROF      P2001      Term    Profiling timer expired
            SIGPWR         -        Term    Power failure (System V)
            SIGQUIT      P1990      Core    Quit from keyboard
            SIGSEGV      P1990      Core    Invalid memory reference
            SIGSTKFLT      -        Term    Stack fault on coprocessor (unused)
            SIGSTOP      P1990      Stop    Stop process
            SIGTSTP      P1990      Stop    Stop typed at terminal
            SIGSYS       P2001      Core    Bad system call (SVr4);
                                            see also seccomp(2)
            SIGTERM      P1990      Term    Termination signal
            SIGTRAP      P2001      Core    Trace/breakpoint trap
            SIGTTIN      P1990      Stop    Terminal input for background process
            SIGTTOU      P1990      Stop    Terminal output for background process
            SIGUNUSED      -        Core    Synonymous with SIGSYS
            SIGURG       P2001      Ign     Urgent condition on socket (4.2BSD)
            SIGUSR1      P1990      Term    User-defined signal 1
            SIGUSR2      P1990      Term    User-defined signal 2
            SIGVTALRM    P2001      Term    Virtual alarm clock (4.2BSD)
            SIGXCPU      P2001      Core    CPU time limit exceeded (4.2BSD);
                                            see setrlimit(2)
            SIGXFSZ      P2001      Core    File size limit exceeded (4.2BSD);
                                            see setrlimit(2)

            SIGWINCH       -        Ign     Window resize signal (4.3BSD, Sun)

            The signals SIGKILL and SIGSTOP cannot be caught, blocked, or
            ignored

        Handling a signal
            The trap command allows us to execute a command when our script receives a signal. It 
            works like this:

                trap arg signals

            "signals" is a list of signals to intercept and "arg" is a command to execute when one 
            of the signals is received. Example:

                trap "rm $TEMP_FILE; exit" SIGHUP SIGINT SIGTERM

            Here, trap will execute the command if any of the listed signals is recieved.

    Commands used:
        ps command
            report a snapshot of the current processes

        pgrepo, pkill commands
            look up or signal processes based on name and other attributes

        kill command
            send a signal to a process

        exit command
            terminate the calling process

        trap command
            trap signals

References:
    - PID Definition: http://www.linfo.org/pid.html
    - Errors and Signals and Traps (Oh, My!) - Part 2: https://linuxcommand.org/lc3_wss0150.php
    - Bash Reference Manual: http://www.gnu.org/savannah-checkouts/gnu/bash/manual/bash.html